---
title: Hata İletileri
ms.date: 07/20/2015
helpviewer_keywords:
- errors [Visual Basic]
- error messages
- trappable errors
- errors [Visual Basic], trappable
ms.assetid: f2dda05b-baef-41f5-8bb1-598bd7cf239f
ms.openlocfilehash: 15d12802c92e7b9ed99c83885bd38e381c8b687d
ms.sourcegitcommit: 17ee6605e01ef32506f8fdc686954244ba6911de
ms.translationtype: MT
ms.contentlocale: tr-TR
ms.lasthandoff: 11/22/2019
ms.locfileid: "74353709"
---
# <a name="error-messages-visual-basic"></a><span data-ttu-id="e51ec-102">Hata İletileri (Visual Basic)</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-102">Error Messages (Visual Basic)</span></span>
<span data-ttu-id="e51ec-103">When you write, compile, or run a Visual Basic application, the following types of errors can occur:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-103">When you write, compile, or run a Visual Basic application, the following types of errors can occur:</span></span>  
  
1. <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-104">Design-time errors, which occur when you write an application in Visual Studio.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-104">Design-time errors, which occur when you write an application in Visual Studio.</span></span>  
  
2. <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-105">Compile-time errors, which occur when you compile an application in Visual Studio or at a command prompt.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-105">Compile-time errors, which occur when you compile an application in Visual Studio or at a command prompt.</span></span>  
  
3. <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-106">Run-time errors, which occur when you run an application in Visual Studio or as a stand-alone executable file.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-106">Run-time errors, which occur when you run an application in Visual Studio or as a stand-alone executable file.</span></span>  
  
 <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-107">For information about how to troubleshoot a specific error, see [Additional Resources for Visual Basic Programmers](../../../visual-basic/getting-started/additional-resources.md).</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-107">For information about how to troubleshoot a specific error, see [Additional Resources for Visual Basic Programmers](../../../visual-basic/getting-started/additional-resources.md).</span></span>  
  
## <a name="run-time-errors"></a><span data-ttu-id="e51ec-108">Run Time Errors</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-108">Run Time Errors</span></span>  
 <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-109">If a Visual Basic application tries to perform an action that the system can't execute, a run-time error occurs, and Visual Basic throws an `Exception` object.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-109">If a Visual Basic application tries to perform an action that the system can't execute, a run-time error occurs, and Visual Basic throws an `Exception` object.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-110">Visual Basic can generate custom errors of any data type, including `Exception` objects, by using the `Throw` statement.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-110">Visual Basic can generate custom errors of any data type, including `Exception` objects, by using the `Throw` statement.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-111">An application can identify the error by displaying the error number and message of a caught exception.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-111">An application can identify the error by displaying the error number and message of a caught exception.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-112">If an error isn't caught, the application ends.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-112">If an error isn't caught, the application ends.</span></span>  
  
 <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-113">The code can trap and examine run-time errors.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-113">The code can trap and examine run-time errors.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-114">If you enclose the code that produces the error in a `Try` block, you can catch any thrown error within a matching `Catch` block.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-114">If you enclose the code that produces the error in a `Try` block, you can catch any thrown error within a matching `Catch` block.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-115">For information about how to trap errors at run time and respond to them in your code, see [Try...Catch...Finally Statement](../../../visual-basic/language-reference/statements/try-catch-finally-statement.md).</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-115">For information about how to trap errors at run time and respond to them in your code, see [Try...Catch...Finally Statement](../../../visual-basic/language-reference/statements/try-catch-finally-statement.md).</span></span>  
  
## <a name="compile-time-errors"></a><span data-ttu-id="e51ec-116">Compile Time Errors</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-116">Compile Time Errors</span></span>  
 <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-117">If the Visual Basic compiler encounters a problem in the code, a compile-time error occurs.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-117">If the Visual Basic compiler encounters a problem in the code, a compile-time error occurs.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-118">In the Code Editor, you can easily identify which line of code caused the error because a wavy line appears under that line of code.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-118">In the Code Editor, you can easily identify which line of code caused the error because a wavy line appears under that line of code.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-119">The error message appears if you either point to the wavy underline or open the **Error List**, which also shows other messages.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-119">The error message appears if you either point to the wavy underline or open the **Error List**, which also shows other messages.</span></span>  
  
 <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-120">If an identifier has a wavy underline and a short underline appears under the rightmost character, you can generate a stub for the class, constructor, method, property, field or enum.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-120">If an identifier has a wavy underline and a short underline appears under the rightmost character, you can generate a stub for the class, constructor, method, property, field or enum.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-121">For more information, see [Generate From Usage](/visualstudio/ide/visual-csharp-intellisense#generate-from-usage).</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-121">For more information, see [Generate From Usage](/visualstudio/ide/visual-csharp-intellisense#generate-from-usage).</span></span>
  
 <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-122">By resolving warnings from the Visual Basic compiler, you might be able to write code that runs faster and has fewer bugs.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-122">By resolving warnings from the Visual Basic compiler, you might be able to write code that runs faster and has fewer bugs.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-123">These warnings identify code that may cause errors when the application is run.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-123">These warnings identify code that may cause errors when the application is run.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-124">For example, the compiler warns you if you try to invoke a member of an unassigned object variable, return from a function without setting the return value, or execute a `Try` block with errors in the logic to catch exceptions.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-124">For example, the compiler warns you if you try to invoke a member of an unassigned object variable, return from a function without setting the return value, or execute a `Try` block with errors in the logic to catch exceptions.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="e51ec-125">For more information about warnings, including how to turn them on and off, see [Configuring Warnings in Visual Basic](/visualstudio/ide/configuring-warnings-in-visual-basic).</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="e51ec-125">For more information about warnings, including how to turn them on and off, see [Configuring Warnings in Visual Basic](/visualstudio/ide/configuring-warnings-in-visual-basic).</span></span>
