---
title: Upgrade APIs for nullable reference types with attributes that define expectations for null values
description: Learn to use the descriptive attributes AllowNull, DisallowNull, MaybeNull, NotNull and more to fully describe the null state of your APIs.
ms.technology: csharp-null-safety
ms.date: 07/31/2019
ms.openlocfilehash: 7142fe0566b1cc7373f5dc777c36443041114c4f
ms.sourcegitcommit: 81ad1f09b93f3b3e6706a7f2e4ddf50ef229ea3d
ms.translationtype: MT
ms.contentlocale: tr-TR
ms.lasthandoff: 11/20/2019
ms.locfileid: "74204628"
---
# <a name="update-libraries-to-use-nullable-reference-types-and-communicate-nullable-rules-to-callers"></a><span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-103">Update libraries to use nullable reference types and communicate nullable rules to callers</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-103">Update libraries to use nullable reference types and communicate nullable rules to callers</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-104">The addition of [nullable reference types](nullable-references.md) means you can declare whether or not a `null` value is allowed or expected for every variable.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-104">The addition of [nullable reference types](nullable-references.md) means you can declare whether or not a `null` value is allowed or expected for every variable.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-105">In addition, you can apply a number of attributes: `AllowNull`, `DisallowNull`, `MaybeNull`, `NotNull`, `NotNullWhen`, `MaybeNullWhen`, and `NotNullWhenNotNull` to completely describe the null states of argument and return values.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-105">In addition, you can apply a number of attributes: `AllowNull`, `DisallowNull`, `MaybeNull`, `NotNull`, `NotNullWhen`, `MaybeNullWhen`, and `NotNullWhenNotNull` to completely describe the null states of argument and return values.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-106">That provides a great experience as you write code.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-106">That provides a great experience as you write code.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-107">You get warnings if a non-nullable variable might be set to `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-107">You get warnings if a non-nullable variable might be set to `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-108">You get warnings if a nullable variable isn't null-checked before you dereference it.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-108">You get warnings if a nullable variable isn't null-checked before you dereference it.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-109">Updating your libraries can take time, but the payoffs are worth it.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-109">Updating your libraries can take time, but the payoffs are worth it.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-110">The more information you provide to the compiler about *when* a `null` value is allowed or prohibited, the better warnings users of your API will get.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-110">The more information you provide to the compiler about *when* a `null` value is allowed or prohibited, the better warnings users of your API will get.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-111">Let's start with a familiar example.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-111">Let's start with a familiar example.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-112">Imagine your library has the following API to retrieve a resource string:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-112">Imagine your library has the following API to retrieve a resource string:</span></span>

```csharp
bool TryGetMessage(string key, out string message)
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-113">The preceding example follows the familiar `Try*` pattern in .NET.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-113">The preceding example follows the familiar `Try*` pattern in .NET.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-114">There are two reference arguments for this API: the `key` and the `message` parameter.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-114">There are two reference arguments for this API: the `key` and the `message` parameter.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-115">This API has the following rules relating to the nullness of these arguments:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-115">This API has the following rules relating to the nullness of these arguments:</span></span>

- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-116">Callers shouldn't pass `null` as the argument for `key`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-116">Callers shouldn't pass `null` as the argument for `key`.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-117">Callers can pass a variable whose value is `null` as the argument for `message`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-117">Callers can pass a variable whose value is `null` as the argument for `message`.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-118">If the `TryGetMessage` method returns `true`, the value of `message` isn't null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-118">If the `TryGetMessage` method returns `true`, the value of `message` isn't null.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-119">If the return value is `false,` the value of `message` (and its null state) is null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-119">If the return value is `false,` the value of `message` (and its null state) is null.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-120">The rule for `key` can be completely expressed by the variable type: `key` should be a non-nullable reference type.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-120">The rule for `key` can be completely expressed by the variable type: `key` should be a non-nullable reference type.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-121">The `message` parameter is more complex.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-121">The `message` parameter is more complex.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-122">It allows `null` as the argument, but guarantees that, on success, that `out` argument isn't null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-122">It allows `null` as the argument, but guarantees that, on success, that `out` argument isn't null.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-123">For these scenarios, you need a richer vocabulary to describe the expectations.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-123">For these scenarios, you need a richer vocabulary to describe the expectations.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-124">Updating your library for nullable references requires more than sprinkling `?` on some of the variables and type names.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-124">Updating your library for nullable references requires more than sprinkling `?` on some of the variables and type names.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-125">The preceding example shows that you need to examine your APIs and consider your expectations for each input argument.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-125">The preceding example shows that you need to examine your APIs and consider your expectations for each input argument.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-126">Consider the guarantees for the return value, and any `out` or `ref` arguments upon the method's return.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-126">Consider the guarantees for the return value, and any `out` or `ref` arguments upon the method's return.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-127">Then communicate those rules to the compiler, and the compiler will provide warnings when callers don't abide by those rules.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-127">Then communicate those rules to the compiler, and the compiler will provide warnings when callers don't abide by those rules.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-128">This work takes time.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-128">This work takes time.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-129">Let's start with strategies to make your library or application nullable-aware, while balancing other requirements and deliverables.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-129">Let's start with strategies to make your library or application nullable-aware, while balancing other requirements and deliverables.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-130">You'll see how to balance ongoing development enabling nullable reference types.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-130">You'll see how to balance ongoing development enabling nullable reference types.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-131">You'll learn challenges for generic type definitions.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-131">You'll learn challenges for generic type definitions.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-132">You'll learn to apply attributes to describe pre- and post-conditions on individual APIs.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-132">You'll learn to apply attributes to describe pre- and post-conditions on individual APIs.</span></span>

## <a name="choose-a-nullable-strategy"></a><span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-133">Choose a nullable strategy</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-133">Choose a nullable strategy</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-134">The first choice is whether nullable reference types should be on or off by default.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-134">The first choice is whether nullable reference types should be on or off by default.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-135">You have two strategies:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-135">You have two strategies:</span></span>

- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-136">Enable nullable reference types for the entire project, and disable it in code that's not ready.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-136">Enable nullable reference types for the entire project, and disable it in code that's not ready.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-137">Only enable nullable reference types for code that's been annotated for nullable reference types.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-137">Only enable nullable reference types for code that's been annotated for nullable reference types.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-138">The first strategy works best when you're adding other features to the library as you update it for nullable reference types.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-138">The first strategy works best when you're adding other features to the library as you update it for nullable reference types.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-139">All new development is nullable aware.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-139">All new development is nullable aware.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-140">As you update existing code, you enable nullable reference types in those classes.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-140">As you update existing code, you enable nullable reference types in those classes.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-141">Following this first strategy, you do the following:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-141">Following this first strategy, you do the following:</span></span>

1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-142">Enable nullable types for the entire project by adding the `<Nullable>enable</Nullable>` element to your *csproj* files.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-142">Enable nullable types for the entire project by adding the `<Nullable>enable</Nullable>` element to your *csproj* files.</span></span> 
1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-143">Add the `#nullable disable` pragma to every source file in your project.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-143">Add the `#nullable disable` pragma to every source file in your project.</span></span> 
1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-144">As you work on each file, remove the pragma and address any warnings.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-144">As you work on each file, remove the pragma and address any warnings.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-145">This first strategy has more up-front work to add the pragma to every file.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-145">This first strategy has more up-front work to add the pragma to every file.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-146">The advantage is that every new code file added to the project will be nullable enabled.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-146">The advantage is that every new code file added to the project will be nullable enabled.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-147">Any new work will be nullable aware; only existing code must be updated.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-147">Any new work will be nullable aware; only existing code must be updated.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-148">The second strategy works better if the library is generally stable, and the main focus of the development is to adopt nullable reference types.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-148">The second strategy works better if the library is generally stable, and the main focus of the development is to adopt nullable reference types.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-149">You turn on nullable reference types as you annotate APIs.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-149">You turn on nullable reference types as you annotate APIs.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-150">When you've finished, you enable nullable reference types for the entire project.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-150">When you've finished, you enable nullable reference types for the entire project.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-151">Following this second strategy you do the following:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-151">Following this second strategy you do the following:</span></span>

1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-152">Add the `#nullable enable` pragma to the file you want to make nullable aware.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-152">Add the `#nullable enable` pragma to the file you want to make nullable aware.</span></span>
1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-153">Address any warnings.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-153">Address any warnings.</span></span>
1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-154">Continue these first two steps until you've made the entire library nullable aware.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-154">Continue these first two steps until you've made the entire library nullable aware.</span></span>
1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-155">Enable nullable types for the entire project by adding the `<Nullable>enable</Nullable>` element to your *csproj* files.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-155">Enable nullable types for the entire project by adding the `<Nullable>enable</Nullable>` element to your *csproj* files.</span></span> 
1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-156">Remove the `#nullable enable` pragmas, as they're no longer needed.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-156">Remove the `#nullable enable` pragmas, as they're no longer needed.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-157">This second strategy has less work up-front.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-157">This second strategy has less work up-front.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-158">The tradeoff is that the first task when you create a new file is to add the pragma and make it nullable aware.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-158">The tradeoff is that the first task when you create a new file is to add the pragma and make it nullable aware.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-159">If any developers on your team forget, that new code is now in the backlog of work to make all code nullable aware.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-159">If any developers on your team forget, that new code is now in the backlog of work to make all code nullable aware.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-160">Which of these strategies you pick depends on how much active development is taking place in your project.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-160">Which of these strategies you pick depends on how much active development is taking place in your project.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-161">The more mature and stable your project, the better the second strategy.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-161">The more mature and stable your project, the better the second strategy.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-162">The more features being developed, the better the first strategy.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-162">The more features being developed, the better the first strategy.</span></span>

## <a name="should-nullable-warnings-introduce-breaking-changes"></a><span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-163">Should nullable warnings introduce breaking changes?</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-163">Should nullable warnings introduce breaking changes?</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-164">Before you enable nullable reference types, variables are considered *nullable oblivious*.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-164">Before you enable nullable reference types, variables are considered *nullable oblivious*.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-165">Once you enable nullable reference types, all those variables are *non-nullable*.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-165">Once you enable nullable reference types, all those variables are *non-nullable*.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-166">The compiler will issue warnings if those variables aren't initialized to non-null values.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-166">The compiler will issue warnings if those variables aren't initialized to non-null values.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-167">Another likely source of warnings is return values when the value hasn't been initialized.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-167">Another likely source of warnings is return values when the value hasn't been initialized.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-168">The first step in addressing the compiler warnings is to use `?` annotations on parameter and return types to indicate when arguments or return values may be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-168">The first step in addressing the compiler warnings is to use `?` annotations on parameter and return types to indicate when arguments or return values may be null.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-169">When reference variables must not be null, the original declaration is correct.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-169">When reference variables must not be null, the original declaration is correct.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-170">As you do this, your goal isn't just to fix warnings.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-170">As you do this, your goal isn't just to fix warnings.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-171">The more important goal is to make the compiler understand your intent for potential null values.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-171">The more important goal is to make the compiler understand your intent for potential null values.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-172">As you examine the warnings, you reach your next major decision for your library.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-172">As you examine the warnings, you reach your next major decision for your library.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-173">Do you want to consider modifying API signatures to more clearly communicate your design intent?</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-173">Do you want to consider modifying API signatures to more clearly communicate your design intent?</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-174">A better API signature for the `TryGetMessage` method examined earlier could be:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-174">A better API signature for the `TryGetMessage` method examined earlier could be:</span></span>

```csharp
string? TryGetMessage(string key);
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-175">The return value indicates success or failure, and carries the value if the value was found.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-175">The return value indicates success or failure, and carries the value if the value was found.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-176">In many cases, changing API signatures can improve how they communicate null values.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-176">In many cases, changing API signatures can improve how they communicate null values.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-177">However, for public libraries, or libraries with large user bases, you may prefer not introducing any API signature changes.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-177">However, for public libraries, or libraries with large user bases, you may prefer not introducing any API signature changes.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-178">For those cases, and other common patterns, you can apply attributes to more clearly define when an argument or return value may be `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-178">For those cases, and other common patterns, you can apply attributes to more clearly define when an argument or return value may be `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-179">Whether or not you consider changing the surface of your API, you'll likely find that type annotations alone aren't sufficient for describing `null` values for arguments or return values.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-179">Whether or not you consider changing the surface of your API, you'll likely find that type annotations alone aren't sufficient for describing `null` values for arguments or return values.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-180">In those instances, you can apply attributes to more clearly describe an API.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-180">In those instances, you can apply attributes to more clearly describe an API.</span></span> 

## <a name="attributes-extend-type-annotations"></a><span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-181">Attributes extend type annotations</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-181">Attributes extend type annotations</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-182">Several attributes have been added to express additional information about the null state of variables.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-182">Several attributes have been added to express additional information about the null state of variables.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-183">All code you wrote before C# 8 introduced nullable reference types was *null oblivious*.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-183">All code you wrote before C# 8 introduced nullable reference types was *null oblivious*.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-184">That means any reference type variable may be null, but null checks aren't required.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-184">That means any reference type variable may be null, but null checks aren't required.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-185">Once your code is *nullable aware*, those rules change.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-185">Once your code is *nullable aware*, those rules change.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-186">Reference types should never be the `null` value, and nullable reference types must be checked against `null` before being dereferenced.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-186">Reference types should never be the `null` value, and nullable reference types must be checked against `null` before being dereferenced.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-187">The rules for your APIs are likely more complicated, as you saw with the `TryGetValue` API scenario.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-187">The rules for your APIs are likely more complicated, as you saw with the `TryGetValue` API scenario.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-188">Many of your APIs have more complex rules for when variables can or can't be `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-188">Many of your APIs have more complex rules for when variables can or can't be `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-189">In these cases, you'll use one of the following attributes to express those rules:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-189">In these cases, you'll use one of the following attributes to express those rules:</span></span>

- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-190">[AllowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.AllowNullAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-190">[AllowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.AllowNullAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-191">[DisallowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.DisallowNullAttribute): A nullable input argument should never be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-191">[DisallowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.DisallowNullAttribute): A nullable input argument should never be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-192">[MaybeNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullAttribute): A non-nullable return value may be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-192">[MaybeNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullAttribute): A non-nullable return value may be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-193">[NotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullAttribute): A nullable return value will never be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-193">[NotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullAttribute): A nullable return value will never be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-194">[MaybeNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullWhenAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-194">[MaybeNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullWhenAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-195">[NotNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullWhenAttribute): A nullable input argument will not be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-195">[NotNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullWhenAttribute): A nullable input argument will not be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-196">[NotNullIfNotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullIfNotNullAttribute): A return value isn't null if the argument for the specified parameter isn't null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-196">[NotNullIfNotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullIfNotNullAttribute): A return value isn't null if the argument for the specified parameter isn't null.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-197">The preceding descriptions are a quick reference to what each attribute does.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-197">The preceding descriptions are a quick reference to what each attribute does.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-198">Each following section describes the behavior and meaning more thoroughly.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-198">Each following section describes the behavior and meaning more thoroughly.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-199">Adding these attributes gives the compiler more information about the rules for your API.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-199">Adding these attributes gives the compiler more information about the rules for your API.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-200">When calling code is compiled in a nullable enabled context, the compiler will warn callers when they violate those rules.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-200">When calling code is compiled in a nullable enabled context, the compiler will warn callers when they violate those rules.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-201">These attributes don't enable additional checks on your implementation.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-201">These attributes don't enable additional checks on your implementation.</span></span>

## <a name="specify-preconditions-allownull-and-disallownull"></a><span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-202">Specify preconditions: `AllowNull` and `DisallowNull`</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-202">Specify preconditions: `AllowNull` and `DisallowNull`</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-203">Consider a read/write property that never returns `null` because it has a reasonable default value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-203">Consider a read/write property that never returns `null` because it has a reasonable default value.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-204">Callers pass `null` to the set accessor when setting it to that default value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-204">Callers pass `null` to the set accessor when setting it to that default value.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-205">For example, consider a messaging system that asks for a screen name in a chat room.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-205">For example, consider a messaging system that asks for a screen name in a chat room.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-206">If none is provided, the system generates a random name:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-206">If none is provided, the system generates a random name:</span></span>

```csharp
public string ScreenName
{
   get => screenName;
   set => screenName = value ?? GenerateRandomScreenName();
}
private string screenName;
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-207">When you compile the preceding code in a nullable oblivious context, everything is fine.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-207">When you compile the preceding code in a nullable oblivious context, everything is fine.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-208">Once you enable nullable reference types, the `ScreenName` property becomes a non-nullable reference.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-208">Once you enable nullable reference types, the `ScreenName` property becomes a non-nullable reference.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-209">That's correct for the `get` accessor: it never returns `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-209">That's correct for the `get` accessor: it never returns `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-210">Callers don't need to check the returned property for `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-210">Callers don't need to check the returned property for `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-211">But now setting the property to `null` generates a warning.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-211">But now setting the property to `null` generates a warning.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-212">In order to continue to support this type of code, you add the <xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.AllowNullAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType> attribute to the property, as shown in the following code:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-212">In order to continue to support this type of code, you add the <xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.AllowNullAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType> attribute to the property, as shown in the following code:</span></span> 

```csharp
[AllowNull]
public string ScreenName
{
   get => screenName;
   set => screenName = value ?? GenerateRandomScreenName();
}
private string screenName = GenerateRandomScreenName();
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-213">You may need to add a `using` directive for <xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis> to use this and other attributes discussed in this article.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-213">You may need to add a `using` directive for <xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis> to use this and other attributes discussed in this article.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-214">The attribute is applied to the property, not the `set` accessor.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-214">The attribute is applied to the property, not the `set` accessor.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-215">The `AllowNull` attribute specifies *pre-conditions*, and only applies to inputs.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-215">The `AllowNull` attribute specifies *pre-conditions*, and only applies to inputs.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-216">The `get` accessor has a return value, but no input arguments.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-216">The `get` accessor has a return value, but no input arguments.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-217">Therefore, the `AllowNull` attribute only applies to the `set` accessor.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-217">Therefore, the `AllowNull` attribute only applies to the `set` accessor.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-218">The preceding example demonstrates what to look for when adding the `AllowNull` attribute on an argument:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-218">The preceding example demonstrates what to look for when adding the `AllowNull` attribute on an argument:</span></span>

1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-219">The general contract for that variable is that it shouldn't be `null`, so you want a non-nullable reference type.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-219">The general contract for that variable is that it shouldn't be `null`, so you want a non-nullable reference type.</span></span>
1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-220">There are scenarios for the input variable to be `null`, though they aren't the most common usage.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-220">There are scenarios for the input variable to be `null`, though they aren't the most common usage.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-221">Most often you'll need this attribute for properties, or `in`, `out`, and `ref` arguments.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-221">Most often you'll need this attribute for properties, or `in`, `out`, and `ref` arguments.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-222">The `AllowNull` attribute is the best choice when a variable is typically non-null, but you need to allow `null` as a precondition.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-222">The `AllowNull` attribute is the best choice when a variable is typically non-null, but you need to allow `null` as a precondition.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-223">Contrast that with scenarios for using `DisallowNull`: You use this attribute to specify that an input variable of a nullable type shouldn't be `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-223">Contrast that with scenarios for using `DisallowNull`: You use this attribute to specify that an input variable of a nullable type shouldn't be `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-224">Consider a property where `null` is the default value, but clients can only set it to a non-null value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-224">Consider a property where `null` is the default value, but clients can only set it to a non-null value.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-225">Consider the following code:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-225">Consider the following code:</span></span>

```csharp
public string ReviewComment
{
    get => _comment;
    set => _comment = value ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(value), "Cannot set to null");
}
string _comment;
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-226">The preceding code is the best way to express your design that the `ReviewComment` could be `null`, but can't be set to `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-226">The preceding code is the best way to express your design that the `ReviewComment` could be `null`, but can't be set to `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-227">Once this code is nullable aware, you can express this concept more clearly to callers using the <xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.DisallowNullAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType>:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-227">Once this code is nullable aware, you can express this concept more clearly to callers using the <xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.DisallowNullAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType>:</span></span>

```csharp
[DisallowNull] 
public string? ReviewComment
{
    get => _comment;
    set => _comment = value ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(value), "Cannot set to null");
}
string? _comment;
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-228">In a nullable context, the `ReviewComment` `get` accessor could return the default value of `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-228">In a nullable context, the `ReviewComment` `get` accessor could return the default value of `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-229">The compiler warns that it must be checked before access.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-229">The compiler warns that it must be checked before access.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-230">Furthermore, it warns callers that, even though it could be `null`, callers shouldn't explicitly set it to `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-230">Furthermore, it warns callers that, even though it could be `null`, callers shouldn't explicitly set it to `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-231">The `DisallowNull` attribute also specifies a *pre-condition*, it does not affect the `get` accessor.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-231">The `DisallowNull` attribute also specifies a *pre-condition*, it does not affect the `get` accessor.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-232">You should choose to use the `DisallowNull` attribute when you observe these characteristics about:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-232">You should choose to use the `DisallowNull` attribute when you observe these characteristics about:</span></span>

1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-233">The variable could be `null` in core scenarios, often when first instantiated.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-233">The variable could be `null` in core scenarios, often when first instantiated.</span></span>
1. <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-234">The variable shouldn't be explicitly set to `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-234">The variable shouldn't be explicitly set to `null`.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-235">These situations are common in code that was originally *null oblivious*.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-235">These situations are common in code that was originally *null oblivious*.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-236">It may be that object properties are set in two distinct initialization operations.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-236">It may be that object properties are set in two distinct initialization operations.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-237">It may be that some properties are set only after some asynchronous work has completed.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-237">It may be that some properties are set only after some asynchronous work has completed.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-238">The `AllowNull` and `DisallowNull` attributes enable you to specify that preconditions on variables may not match the nullable annotations on those variables.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-238">The `AllowNull` and `DisallowNull` attributes enable you to specify that preconditions on variables may not match the nullable annotations on those variables.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-239">These provide more detail about the characteristics of your API.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-239">These provide more detail about the characteristics of your API.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-240">This additional information helps callers use your API correctly.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-240">This additional information helps callers use your API correctly.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-241">Remember you specify preconditions using the following attributes:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-241">Remember you specify preconditions using the following attributes:</span></span>

- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-242">[AllowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.AllowNullAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-242">[AllowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.AllowNullAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-243">[DisallowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.DisallowNullAttribute): A nullable input argument should never be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-243">[DisallowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.DisallowNullAttribute): A nullable input argument should never be null.</span></span>

## <a name="specify-post-conditions-maybenull-and-notnull"></a><span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-244">Specify post-conditions: `MaybeNull` and `NotNull`</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-244">Specify post-conditions: `MaybeNull` and `NotNull`</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-245">Suppose you have a method with the following signature:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-245">Suppose you have a method with the following signature:</span></span>

```csharp
public Customer FindCustomer(string lastName, string firstName)
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-246">You've likely written a method like this to return `null` when the name sought wasn't found.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-246">You've likely written a method like this to return `null` when the name sought wasn't found.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-247">The `null` clearly indicates that the record wasn't found.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-247">The `null` clearly indicates that the record wasn't found.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-248">In this example, you'd likely change the return type from `Customer` to `Customer?`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-248">In this example, you'd likely change the return type from `Customer` to `Customer?`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-249">Declaring the return value as a nullable reference type specifies the intent of this API clearly.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-249">Declaring the return value as a nullable reference type specifies the intent of this API clearly.</span></span> 

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-250">For reasons covered under [Generic definitions and nullability](#generic-definitions-and-nullability) that technique does not work with generic methods.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-250">For reasons covered under [Generic definitions and nullability](#generic-definitions-and-nullability) that technique does not work with generic methods.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-251">You may have a generic method that follows a similar pattern:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-251">You may have a generic method that follows a similar pattern:</span></span>

```csharp
public T Find<T>(IEnumerable<T> sequence, Func<T, bool> match)
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-252">You can't specify that the return value is `T?`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-252">You can't specify that the return value is `T?`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-253">The method returns `null` when the sought item isn't found.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-253">The method returns `null` when the sought item isn't found.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-254">Since you can't declare a `T?` return type, you add the `MaybeNull` annotation to the method return:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-254">Since you can't declare a `T?` return type, you add the `MaybeNull` annotation to the method return:</span></span>

```csharp
[return: MaybeNull]
public T Find<T>(IEnumerable<T> sequence, Func<T, bool> match)
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-255">The preceding code informs callers that the contract implies a non-nullable type, but the return value *may* actually be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-255">The preceding code informs callers that the contract implies a non-nullable type, but the return value *may* actually be null.</span></span>  <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-256">Use the `MaybeNull` attribute when your API should be a non-nullable type, typically a generic type parameter, but there may be instances where `null` would be returned.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-256">Use the `MaybeNull` attribute when your API should be a non-nullable type, typically a generic type parameter, but there may be instances where `null` would be returned.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-257">You can also specify that a return value or an `out` or `ref` argument isn't null even though the type is a nullable type.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-257">You can also specify that a return value or an `out` or `ref` argument isn't null even though the type is a nullable type.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-258">Consider a method that ensures an array is large enough to hold a number of elements.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-258">Consider a method that ensures an array is large enough to hold a number of elements.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-259">If the input argument doesn't have capacity, the routine would allocate a new array and copy all the existing elements into it.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-259">If the input argument doesn't have capacity, the routine would allocate a new array and copy all the existing elements into it.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-260">If the input argument is `null`, the routine would allocate new storage.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-260">If the input argument is `null`, the routine would allocate new storage.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-261">If there's sufficient capacity, the routine does nothing:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-261">If there's sufficient capacity, the routine does nothing:</span></span>

```csharp
public void EnsureCapacity<T>(ref T[] storage, int size)
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-262">You could call this routine as follows:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-262">You could call this routine as follows:</span></span>

```csharp
// messages has the default value (null) when EnsureCapacity is called:
EnsureCapacity<string>(ref messages, 10);
// messages is not null.
EnsureCapacity<string>(messages, 50);
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-263">After enabling null reference types, you want to ensure that the preceding code compiles without warnings.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-263">After enabling null reference types, you want to ensure that the preceding code compiles without warnings.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-264">When the method returns, the `storage` argument is guaranteed to be not null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-264">When the method returns, the `storage` argument is guaranteed to be not null.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-265">However, it's acceptable to call `EnsureCapacity` with a null reference.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-265">However, it's acceptable to call `EnsureCapacity` with a null reference.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-266">You can make `storage` a nullable reference type, and add the `NotNull` post-condition to the parameter declaration:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-266">You can make `storage` a nullable reference type, and add the `NotNull` post-condition to the parameter declaration:</span></span>

```csharp
public void EnsureCapacity<T>([NotNull]ref T[]? storage, int size)
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-267">The preceding code expresses the existing contract very clearly: Callers can pass a variable with the `null` value, but the return value is guaranteed to never be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-267">The preceding code expresses the existing contract very clearly: Callers can pass a variable with the `null` value, but the return value is guaranteed to never be null.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-268">The `NotNull` attribute is most useful for `ref` and `out` arguments where `null` may be passed as an argument, but that argument is guaranteed to be not null when the method returns.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-268">The `NotNull` attribute is most useful for `ref` and `out` arguments where `null` may be passed as an argument, but that argument is guaranteed to be not null when the method returns.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-269">You specify unconditional postconditions using the following attributes:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-269">You specify unconditional postconditions using the following attributes:</span></span>

- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-270">[MaybeNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullAttribute): A non-nullable return value may be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-270">[MaybeNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullAttribute): A non-nullable return value may be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-271">[NotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullAttribute): A nullable return value will never be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-271">[NotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullAttribute): A nullable return value will never be null.</span></span>

## <a name="specify-conditional-post-conditions-notnullwhen-maybenullwhen-and-notnullifnotnull"></a><span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-272">Specify conditional post-conditions: `NotNullWhen`, `MaybeNullWhen`, and `NotNullIfNotNull`</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-272">Specify conditional post-conditions: `NotNullWhen`, `MaybeNullWhen`, and `NotNullIfNotNull`</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-273">You're likely familiar with the `string` method <xref:System.String.IsNullOrEmpty(System.String)?DisplayProperty=nameWithType>.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-273">You're likely familiar with the `string` method <xref:System.String.IsNullOrEmpty(System.String)?DisplayProperty=nameWithType>.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-274">This method returns `true` when the argument is null or an empty string.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-274">This method returns `true` when the argument is null or an empty string.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-275">It's a form of null-check: Callers don't need to null-check the argument if the method returns `false`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-275">It's a form of null-check: Callers don't need to null-check the argument if the method returns `false`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-276">To make a method like this nullable aware, you'd set the argument to a nullable type, and add the `NotNullWhen` attribute:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-276">To make a method like this nullable aware, you'd set the argument to a nullable type, and add the `NotNullWhen` attribute:</span></span>

```csharp
bool IsNullOrEmpty([NotNullWhen(false)]string? value);
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-277">That informs the compiler that any code where the return value is `false` need not be null-checked.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-277">That informs the compiler that any code where the return value is `false` need not be null-checked.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-278">The addition of the attribute informs the compiler's static analysis that `IsNullOrEmpty` performs the necessary null check: when it returns `false`, the input argument is not `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-278">The addition of the attribute informs the compiler's static analysis that `IsNullOrEmpty` performs the necessary null check: when it returns `false`, the input argument is not `null`.</span></span>

```csharp
string? userInput = GetUserInput();
if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(userInput))
{
   int messageLength = userInput.Length; // no null check needed.
}
// null check needed on userInput here.
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-279">The <xref:System.String.IsNullOrEmpty(System.String)?DisplayProperty=nameWithType> method will be annotated as shown above for .NET Core 3.0.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-279">The <xref:System.String.IsNullOrEmpty(System.String)?DisplayProperty=nameWithType> method will be annotated as shown above for .NET Core 3.0.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-280">You may have similar methods in your codebase that check the state of objects for null values.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-280">You may have similar methods in your codebase that check the state of objects for null values.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-281">The compiler won't recognize custom null check methods, and you'll need to add the annotations yourself.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-281">The compiler won't recognize custom null check methods, and you'll need to add the annotations yourself.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-282">When you add the attribute, the compiler's static analysis knows when the tested variable has been null checked.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-282">When you add the attribute, the compiler's static analysis knows when the tested variable has been null checked.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-283">Another use for these attributes is the `Try*` pattern.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-283">Another use for these attributes is the `Try*` pattern.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-284">The postconditions for `ref` and `out` variables are communicated through the return value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-284">The postconditions for `ref` and `out` variables are communicated through the return value.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-285">Consider this method shown earlier:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-285">Consider this method shown earlier:</span></span>

```csharp
bool TryGetMessage(string key, out string message)
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-286">The preceding method follows a typical .NET idiom: the return value indicates if `message` was set to the found value or, if no message is found, to the default value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-286">The preceding method follows a typical .NET idiom: the return value indicates if `message` was set to the found value or, if no message is found, to the default value.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-287">If the method returns `true`, the value of `message` isn't null; otherwise, the method sets `message` to null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-287">If the method returns `true`, the value of `message` isn't null; otherwise, the method sets `message` to null.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-288">You can communicate that idiom using the `NotNullWhen` attribute.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-288">You can communicate that idiom using the `NotNullWhen` attribute.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-289">When you update the signature for nullable reference types, make `message` a `string?` and add an attribute:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-289">When you update the signature for nullable reference types, make `message` a `string?` and add an attribute:</span></span>

```csharp
bool TryGetMessage(string key, [NotNullWhen(true)] out string? message)
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-290">In the preceding example, the value of `message` is known to be not null when `TryGetMessage` returns `true`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-290">In the preceding example, the value of `message` is known to be not null when `TryGetMessage` returns `true`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-291">You should annotate similar methods in your codebase in the same way: the arguments could be `null`, and are known to be not null when the method returns `true`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-291">You should annotate similar methods in your codebase in the same way: the arguments could be `null`, and are known to be not null when the method returns `true`.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-292">There's one final attribute you may also need.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-292">There's one final attribute you may also need.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-293">Sometimes the null state of a return value depends on the null state of one or more input arguments.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-293">Sometimes the null state of a return value depends on the null state of one or more input arguments.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-294">These methods will return a non-null value whenever certain input arguments aren't `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-294">These methods will return a non-null value whenever certain input arguments aren't `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-295">To correctly annotate these methods, you use the `NotNullIfNotNull` attribute.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-295">To correctly annotate these methods, you use the `NotNullIfNotNull` attribute.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-296">Consider the following method:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-296">Consider the following method:</span></span>

```csharp
string GetTopLevelDomainFromFullUrl(string url);
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-297">If the `url` argument isn't null, the output isn't `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-297">If the `url` argument isn't null, the output isn't `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-298">Once nullable references are enabled, that signature works correctly, provided your API never accepts a null input.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-298">Once nullable references are enabled, that signature works correctly, provided your API never accepts a null input.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-299">However, if the input could be null, then return value could also be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-299">However, if the input could be null, then return value could also be null.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-300">Therefore, you could change the signature to the following code:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-300">Therefore, you could change the signature to the following code:</span></span>

```csharp
string? GetTopLevelDomainFromFullUrl(string? url);
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-301">That also works, but will often force callers to implement extra `null` checks.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-301">That also works, but will often force callers to implement extra `null` checks.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-302">The contract is that the return value would be `null` only when the input argument `url` is `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-302">The contract is that the return value would be `null` only when the input argument `url` is `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-303">To express that contract, you would annotate this method as shown in the following code:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-303">To express that contract, you would annotate this method as shown in the following code:</span></span>

```csharp
[return: NotNullIfNotNull("url")]
string? GetTopLevelDomainFromFullUrl(string? url);
```

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-304">The return value and the argument have both been annotated with the `?` indicating that either could be `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-304">The return value and the argument have both been annotated with the `?` indicating that either could be `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-305">The attribute further clarifies that the return value won't be null when the `url` argument isn't `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-305">The attribute further clarifies that the return value won't be null when the `url` argument isn't `null`.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-306">You specify conditional postconditions using these attributes:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-306">You specify conditional postconditions using these attributes:</span></span>

- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-307">[MaybeNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullWhenAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-307">[MaybeNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullWhenAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-308">[NotNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullWhenAttribute): A nullable input argument will not be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-308">[NotNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullWhenAttribute): A nullable input argument will not be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-309">[NotNullIfNotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullIfNotNullAttribute): A return value isn't null if the input argument for the specified parameter isn't null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-309">[NotNullIfNotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullIfNotNullAttribute): A return value isn't null if the input argument for the specified parameter isn't null.</span></span>

## <a name="generic-definitions-and-nullability"></a><span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-310">Generic definitions and nullability</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-310">Generic definitions and nullability</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-311">Correctly communicating the null state of generic types and generic methods requires special care.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-311">Correctly communicating the null state of generic types and generic methods requires special care.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-312">This stems from the fact that a nullable value type and a nullable reference type are fundamentally different.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-312">This stems from the fact that a nullable value type and a nullable reference type are fundamentally different.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-313">An `int?` is a synonym for `Nullable<int>`, whereas `string?` is `string` with an attribute added by the compiler.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-313">An `int?` is a synonym for `Nullable<int>`, whereas `string?` is `string` with an attribute added by the compiler.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-314">The result is that the compiler can't generate correct code for `T?` without knowing if `T` is a `class` or a `struct`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-314">The result is that the compiler can't generate correct code for `T?` without knowing if `T` is a `class` or a `struct`.</span></span> 

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-315">This doesn't mean you can't use a nullable type (either value type or reference type) as the type argument for a closed generic type.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-315">This doesn't mean you can't use a nullable type (either value type or reference type) as the type argument for a closed generic type.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-316">Both `List<string?>` and `List<int?>` are valid instantiations of `List<T>`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-316">Both `List<string?>` and `List<int?>` are valid instantiations of `List<T>`.</span></span> 

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-317">What it does mean is that you can't use `T?` in a generic class or method declaration without constraints.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-317">What it does mean is that you can't use `T?` in a generic class or method declaration without constraints.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-318">For example, <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.FirstOrDefault%60%601(System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable%7B%60%600%7D)?displayProperty=nameWithType> won't be changed to return `T?`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-318">For example, <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.FirstOrDefault%60%601(System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable%7B%60%600%7D)?displayProperty=nameWithType> won't be changed to return `T?`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-319">You can overcome this limitation by adding either the `struct` or `class` constraint.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-319">You can overcome this limitation by adding either the `struct` or `class` constraint.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-320">With either of those constraints, the compiler knows how to generate code for both `T` and `T?`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-320">With either of those constraints, the compiler knows how to generate code for both `T` and `T?`.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-321">You may want to restrict the types used for a generic type argument to be non-nullable types.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-321">You may want to restrict the types used for a generic type argument to be non-nullable types.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-322">You can do that by adding the `notnull` constraint on that type argument.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-322">You can do that by adding the `notnull` constraint on that type argument.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-323">When that constraint is applied, the type argument must not be a nullable type.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-323">When that constraint is applied, the type argument must not be a nullable type.</span></span>

## <a name="conclusions"></a><span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-324">Sonular</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-324">Conclusions</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-325">Adding nullable reference types provides an initial vocabulary to describe your APIs expectations for variables that could be `null`.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-325">Adding nullable reference types provides an initial vocabulary to describe your APIs expectations for variables that could be `null`.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-326">The additional attributes provide a richer vocabulary to describe the null state of variables as preconditions and postconditions.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-326">The additional attributes provide a richer vocabulary to describe the null state of variables as preconditions and postconditions.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-327">These attributes more clearly describe your expectations and provide a better experience for the developers using your APIs.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-327">These attributes more clearly describe your expectations and provide a better experience for the developers using your APIs.</span></span>

<span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-328">As you update libraries for a nullable context, add these attributes to guide users of your APIs to the correct usage.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-328">As you update libraries for a nullable context, add these attributes to guide users of your APIs to the correct usage.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-329">These attributes help you fully describe the null-state of input arguments and return values:</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-329">These attributes help you fully describe the null-state of input arguments and return values:</span></span>

- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-330">[AllowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.AllowNullAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-330">[AllowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.AllowNullAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-331">[DisallowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.DisallowNullAttribute): A nullable input argument should never be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-331">[DisallowNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.DisallowNullAttribute): A nullable input argument should never be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-332">[MaybeNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullAttribute): A non-nullable return value may be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-332">[MaybeNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullAttribute): A non-nullable return value may be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-333">[NotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullAttribute): A nullable return value will never be null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-333">[NotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullAttribute): A nullable return value will never be null.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-334">[MaybeNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullWhenAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-334">[MaybeNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.MaybeNullWhenAttribute): A non-nullable input argument may be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-335">[NotNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullWhenAttribute): A nullable input argument will not be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-335">[NotNullWhen](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullWhenAttribute): A nullable input argument will not be null when the method returns the specified `bool` value.</span></span>
- <span data-ttu-id="9f7ae-336">[NotNullIfNotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullIfNotNullAttribute): A return value isn't null if the input argument for the specified parameter isn't null.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="9f7ae-336">[NotNullIfNotNull](xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.NotNullIfNotNullAttribute): A return value isn't null if the input argument for the specified parameter isn't null.</span></span>
